About 
=====

Cybersecurity is a highly dynamic field with newly discovered security attacks
finding constant mention in news headlines. With the pervasive adoption of
computing devices for activities ranging from social media to banking, travel
and communication; cybersecurity is now vital in protecting personal and
privileged information. To better prepare future security professionals, various
initiatives have been put in place to impart them the practical skills to fully
grasp and employ relevant technology in handling security threats. While several
learning environments have been developed to provide this hands-on experience,
they often rely on learners downloading or configuring virtual machines which
pose significant technological and administrative challenges. Also, most
education tools are created by a small number of experts focusing on basic
concepts rather than emerging trends.  We propose to address these identified
gaps in cybersecurity training by catalyzing a broad collaborative effort of a
community of cybersecurity researchers, educators, practitioners and students
around containerized cybersecurity learning tools on a dynamic, publicly
available, web-based learning platform. By presenting these learning tools
exclusively through a web interface, we enable their use on a wide range of
desktop operating systems including Chrome OS. In addition to supplementing
traditional cybersecurity instruction, our broader goal is to create a
cybersecurity learning ecosystem that is continually updated with emerging
trends in cybersecurity research as well as recently discovered security
attacks. We will actively seek contributions in both these areas from a broad
community of students and faculty at community colleges, minority-serving
institutions and organizations such as Women in Cybersecurity while
incorporating reward mechanisms that encourage contribution. Our platform will
be hosted using a combination of educational and commercial cloud-computing
resources while we engage with cloud service providers and industry partners to
garner hosting support for long-term sustainability.  

Intellectual Merit 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Prior research has shown the effectiveness of practical training in learning
cybersecurity concepts. However, this training need not and should not be
restricted to just students enrolled in cybersecurity courses. As new security
incidents are unearthed, a public resource that can provide a broad
understanding of the issues involved is necessary for expanding public
knowledge. By actively involving users in both the content and expansion of the
platform, we can expand the reach of our platform, thus increasing its
sustainability. The platform is also designed to be lightweight, portable, and
flexible enough to leverage a multitude of deployment resources. In addition,
our emphasis on web-driven content simplifies its use across our broad target
demographic. The project members are active in the cybersecurity and IT
education domains and can successfully leverage and engage the expertise and
resources of colleagues in these fields.  

Broader Impacts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While most cybersecurity learning platforms are designed with a  narrow audience 
in mind, our platform is intended for educators, students, practitioners and
developers. Our emphasis on community-driven content ensures that users are
actively engaged in the platform's expansion and promotes sustained use unlike
platforms that simply contain a curated set of applications. By combining a
public platform with solicited hosting support from professional organizations
and commercial cloud-computing providers, we ensure wider reach to audiences
that cannot afford dedicated implementations. Special emphasis is laid on
including student contributors to help improve their understanding of
cybersecurity concepts via implementation. Our use of container technology
guarantees long-term reproducible experience and reusability, simplifying
content contribution. By laying equal emphasis on case-driven and research-based
demonstrations, we also kindle interest in both lay users and experts in
cybersecurity to explore new opportunities in cybersecurity education and
development

